School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
UB HomeMapsUB Directory
Department of Computer Science
and Engineering
Give to CSE Apply Now Contact Us
About Us
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
People
News & Events
Alumni
SEARCH
INFO FOR
Department of Computer Science and Engineering About Us Chair's Welcome
About Us
Chair's Welcome
Our Mission
Our Values
Why Choose CSE?
Faces & Voices
A History of our Department
Contact Us
Support CSE
Related Links
About the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
About the University
About Buffalo-Niagara
Chair's Welcome
Jinhui Xu, CSE Professor and Department Chair
It is my great pleasure to welcome you to the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at the University at Buffalo (UB), the State University of New York. Over the last few decades, research and contributions in computer science and engineering have made an incredible impact on our daily lives, and have driven the advancement of our society.  Now is an exciting time to become a computer scientist or computer engineer, and I am thrilled to welcome you to your journey.  
Founded in 1967 by computing pioneer Dr. Anthony Ralston, UBCSE was one of the first computer science departments in the nation. By coming to UBCSE, you join a strong tradition of excellence in education and research, as well as unique outreach opportunities for students, faculty, staff, collaborators and industry partners.
At UBCSE, you will have an opportunity to learn from and work with more than 50 world-class faculty members. Included among our faculty are many Fellows of professional societies such as ACM, IEEE, IAPR and AAAS, and recipients of numerous prestigious national and international awards. Our faculty conduct cutting-edge research in today’s most relevant topics, such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML), Internet of Things (IoT), Mobile Systems, Robotics, Cyber Security, Multimedia Forensics, Big Data Analytics, Bioinformatics and Computer-Assisted Education, to name a few.
We provide a friendly, inclusive and collaborative working environment for faculty, both within and outside the department, and embrace a tradition that recognizes academic excellence. Our department also benefits from a welcoming and supportive staff who help our faculty and students achieve success and add to our collaborative and friendly environment.
UBCSE offers comprehensive, yet flexible, educational programs at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. This allows more than 2,000 students to customize their courses to meet their interests and fully realize their potential. At the undergraduate level, we have three programs: the BA and BS degree programs in Computer Science and the BS in Computer Engineering. All three programs are aligned with the highest national standards for computing curricula set forth by the ACM, IEEE Computer Societies and the International Computer Engineering/Computer Science Education Accreditation board, ABET.
At the graduate level, we offer two highly ranked programs, the PhD and MS degrees in Computer Science and Engineering.  Independent educational ranking agencies view our programs favorably:
The US News and World Report on Best Global Universities ranked our graduate program 21st in the US in 2021.
CSRankings.org, a metrics-based ranking of top computer science institutions around the world, ranked us 30th from 2019 to 2022.
Scholar rankings, a ranking of US doctoral programs in Computer Science based on faculty citations, ranked us 29th in 2017.
Our excellent undergraduate and graduate students actively participate in research and activities, tackling some of the today’s toughest global challenges in a variety of ways. Students have the opportunity to get involved with a number of clubs and organizations including:
Inven[s|t] UB club, an organization that aims to spur entrepreneurship.
UB’s Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) student club, which hosts hack nights and other events
UB DivTech, which promotes diversity in computing
Society and Computing (SoCo), which analyzes the impacting computing has on our everyday life
UB Hacking, CSE's student-run hackathon
CSE Undergraduate Student Advisory Board (CSE SAB) organizes and hosts our CSE Kids Night, a kid-friendly event that features interactive projects designed to promote computer science to the next generation
CSE Graduate Student Association organizes special interest groups and deep learning activities for our graduate students
Our alumni have gone on to work for some of the world’s leading tech companies including Google, Apple, Amazon, and Microsoft, or to hold academic positions at some world-renowned institutions such as Cornell University, the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Many of their great achievements have had a positive impact on society. Among our alumni you will find prize-winning researchers and CEOs of some of the fastest-growing information technology companies around the world. A number of them have stayed in touch with our department, by serving on advisory committees, mentoring students, and hiring our graduates. Some also returned to their alma mater in 2017 to celebrate our 50th anniversary.
In closing, with excellent alumni, faculty, staff and students, and world-class research and education programs covering state-of-the-art science and technology, UBCSE has something valuable to offer to everyone, whether you are a faculty candidate, student applicant, a potential employer, a program manager from a funding agency, or someone interested in learning more about the fascinating field of computer science and engineering. I invite you to browse through our website to learn more about our department.
Sincerely,
Jinhui Xu, PhD
Professor and CSE Department Chair
 “Stronger CSE at UB, Better You and Me.”
"CSE Jingle" by Chunming Qiao and Preet Desai, performed by Preet Desai
play
stop
min volume
max volume
00:00
00:00
CSE AT A GLANCE
Chair: Jinhui Xu
Full-time Faculty: 61
Degrees Offered:
PhD in Computer Science and Engineering
MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS/MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS in Computer Science
BS in Computer Engineering
BA in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Cybersecurity
BS in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology—Computer Science and Engineering Concentration
BS in Computational Physics
BA in Social Sciences Interdisciplinary—Cognitive Science Concentration
Student Body:
918 Graduate Majors
2,062 Undergraduate Majors
1,319 Graduate Student Headcounts
2,404 Undergraduate Student Headcounts
64 Nations Represented
Research Overview:
18,332 square feet of teaching and research labs
$4.6 million in annual research expenditures
Research Areas:
Artificial Intelligence
Systems
Theory
Interdisciplinary
NEED TO TALK TO SOMEONE?
For personal assistance, email the appropriate support team below.
CSE Departmental Inquiries:
cse-dept@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Prospective Students):
gradeng@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Current Students):
csegradcoord@buffalo.edu
CSE Undergraduate Program:
cse-uginfo@buffalo.edu
CSE Information Technology Services:
cse-consult@buffalo.edu
SEE MORE CSE CONTACT OPTIONS

Connect With Us
Computer Science and Engineering
338 Davis Hall
Buffalo, New York 14260-2500
(716) 645-3180
Quick Links
Why Choose CSE?
News & Events
Employment Opportunities
Give to CSE
Contact Us
Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Explore Further
Get Involved
Engineering and Applied Sciences Alumni Association
Support SEAS
Collaborate with UB
On This Website
About Us
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Research
People
News & Events
Full Site Map
Information For
Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni
© 2023 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility
