School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
UB HomeMapsUB Directory
Department of Computer Science
and Engineering
Give to CSE Apply Now Contact Us
About Us
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
People
News & Events
Alumni
SEARCH
INFO FOR
Department of Computer Science and Engineering About Us Faces & Voices Condello, Jacob
About Us
Chair's Welcome
Our Mission
Our Values
Why Choose CSE?
Faces & Voices
A History of our Department
Contact Us
Support CSE
Related Links
About the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
About the University
About Buffalo-Niagara
Condello, Jacob
Computer Engineering BS '17
Jacob Condello.  Data science expertise leads to multiple job offers in WNY.  Photo credit: Onion Studio
“Computer engineering can be directly applicable to real problems, and there's a strong job market. ”
Jacob Condello
Computer Engineering BS '17
Published April 3, 2017
This content is archived.
by Christian Miller
While still an undergrad, Jacob Condello traveled to Seattle to attend one of the top international computer science education conferences.
At the 2017 Association for Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education (ACM-SIGCSE) technical symposium, Jacob and collaborator Simran Singh showed off their research project, "Building Tools, Gathering Data: Precursors for Assessing Students' Programming Process."
Jacob credits CSE's Certificate in Data Intensive Computing program for his involvement in the project.  Certificates are non-degree-granting programs that enhance our degree programs by conveying deep knowledge in one specific research area.  The department offers several of them at the undergrad and grad levels.
Jacob describes some of the courses that comprise the Certificate in Data Intensive Computing.  "Bina Ramamurthy teaches CSE 487: Data Intensive Computing," he said.  "You also have to take CSE 486: Distributed Systems and do a research project. Biological data science or anything in data science. That's what pointed me to data science. Carl Alphonce teaches using the Eclipse integrated development environment and became interested in collecting Eclipse data."
The goal of the investigation, still in its preliminary phase, is to use programming data to identify struggling student programmers in order to deliver special assistance to them. "The highlight of that project is finding a field I'm interested in, which is data science, and data intensive computing, and then seeking out the faculty to pursue it in more depth than the course offered." He later became a teaching assistant for Bina Ramamurthy, who is "always on the lookout for interesting stuff."
Jacob, a Webster, N.Y. native, is fielding multiple job offers in the Rochester, N.Y. area. His data science expertise, research work, teaching experience, and perfect 4.0 GPA make him an employer's ideal job candidate.
"Identifying the trending fields is important," he said. "I chose UB because of the computer engineering program. Computer engineering provides more depth in electrical engineering and natural sciences. Computer engineering can be directly applicable to real problems, and there's a strong job market."
CSE AT A GLANCE
Chair: Jinhui Xu
Full-time Faculty: 61
Degrees Offered:
PhD in Computer Science and Engineering
MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS/MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS in Computer Science
BS in Computer Engineering
BA in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Cybersecurity
BS in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology—Computer Science and Engineering Concentration
BS in Computational Physics
BA in Social Sciences Interdisciplinary—Cognitive Science Concentration
Student Body:
918 Graduate Majors
2,062 Undergraduate Majors
1,319 Graduate Student Headcounts
2,404 Undergraduate Student Headcounts
64 Nations Represented
Research Overview:
18,332 square feet of teaching and research labs
$4.6 million in annual research expenditures
Research Areas:
Artificial Intelligence
Systems
Theory
Interdisciplinary
NEED TO TALK TO SOMEONE?
For personal assistance, email the appropriate support team below.
CSE Departmental Inquiries:
cse-dept@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Prospective Students):
gradeng@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Current Students):
csegradcoord@buffalo.edu
CSE Undergraduate Program:
cse-uginfo@buffalo.edu
CSE Information Technology Services:
cse-consult@buffalo.edu
SEE MORE CSE CONTACT OPTIONS

Connect With Us
Computer Science and Engineering
338 Davis Hall
Buffalo, New York 14260-2500
(716) 645-3180
Quick Links
Why Choose CSE?
News & Events
Employment Opportunities
Give to CSE
Contact Us
Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Explore Further
Get Involved
Engineering and Applied Sciences Alumni Association
Support SEAS
Collaborate with UB
On This Website
About Us
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Research
People
News & Events
Full Site Map
Information For
Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni
© 2023 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility
