School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
UB HomeMapsUB Directory
Department of Computer Science
and Engineering
Give to CSE Apply Now Contact Us
About Us
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
People
News & Events
Alumni
SEARCH
INFO FOR
Department of Computer Science and Engineering About Us Faces & Voices Sebastian Cisneros
About Us
Chair's Welcome
Our Mission
Our Values
Why Choose CSE?
Faces & Voices
A History of our Department
Contact Us
Support CSE
Related Links
About the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
About the University
About Buffalo-Niagara
STUDENT PROFILE
Sebastian Cisneros
B.S., Computer Science, May 2022 (expected)
Sebastian Cisneros is an undergraduate student in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. He is also the president of the UB chapter of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), which was founded in 1973 and is the nation’s largest association dedicated to fostering Hispanic leadership in STEM. At UB, the club coordinates MentorSHPE, an undergraduate mentoring program.
Sebastian Cisneros with other SHPE members at the 2019 SHPE National Convention in Phoenix, Arizona.
“My favorite part about the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers is the amount of career opportunities that come with being involved with the club. ”
Sebastian Cisneros, undergraduate student
Computer science
Where are you from?
I am from Jackson Heights in Queens, New York.
Why did you choose to go into engineering?
Since I was little I was interested in how machines and computers worked. That interest developed over time, but I would say that learning about robotics in my high school really solidified my decision to go into engineering.
What do you like most about engineering at UB?
I like that there are many opportunities to improve your skills and work on projects. Participating in BattleBots and hackathons were very rewarding experiences for me.
Tell us about your involvement in the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE).
I initially got involved with SHPE because my older relative was in SHPE and told me I should check it out. It was nice to be around others who shared similar interests with me, and came from a similar culture as well. What motivated me to become president was the ability to help others, just like previous members helped me.
What's your favorite part of being in SHPE?
My favorite part about SHPE is the amount of career opportunities that come with being involved with the club. It’s always an exciting moment when a member receives an internship or full-time job offer after all their hard work. 
Is there anything new or particularly exciting that your organization is working on?
At the moment we have been talking about the possibility of working on a BattleBot. This bot would be for our own learning experience, and not necessarily for use in the UB BattleBot competition.  
What are you working on righrt now?
Currently I am trying to learn a bit more about front end development in order to work on a few personal projects with my peers.
What are you passionate about?
Since working with robots in high school, I’ve had an interest in robotics and artificial intelligence. However, outside of school work I’ve always been passionate about skateboarding.
Has there been a particular faculty or staff member that has been formative during your time at UB?
There have been a few moments when certain professors have said something that has really stuck with me. One such moment that comes to mind is when Professor Ethan Blanton took a moment to talk to us about how imposter syndrome can affect anyone, and we are all capable of being successful.
What are your future plans?
Ideally, I want land a full-time offer that lets me work right after graduation. I want to be able to support my parents so they can finally rest after all the hard work they’ve done to get me where I am now.
What is your advice for prospective students?
My advice to prospective students would be to try and not fall into the trap of not needing to study because your first semester or two are easy. Aside from that I think it’s important to try and get involved with clubs that interest you at UB, as they could one day lead to career opportunities.
Learn more about UB's chapter of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE) here.
CSE AT A GLANCE
Chair: Jinhui Xu
Full-time Faculty: 61
Degrees Offered:
PhD in Computer Science and Engineering
MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS/MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS in Computer Science
BS in Computer Engineering
BA in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Cybersecurity
BS in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology—Computer Science and Engineering Concentration
BS in Computational Physics
BA in Social Sciences Interdisciplinary—Cognitive Science Concentration
Student Body:
918 Graduate Majors
2,062 Undergraduate Majors
1,319 Graduate Student Headcounts
2,404 Undergraduate Student Headcounts
64 Nations Represented
Research Overview:
18,332 square feet of teaching and research labs
$4.6 million in annual research expenditures
Research Areas:
Artificial Intelligence
Systems
Theory
Interdisciplinary
NEED TO TALK TO SOMEONE?
For personal assistance, email the appropriate support team below.
CSE Departmental Inquiries:
cse-dept@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Prospective Students):
gradeng@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Current Students):
csegradcoord@buffalo.edu
CSE Undergraduate Program:
cse-uginfo@buffalo.edu
CSE Information Technology Services:
cse-consult@buffalo.edu
SEE MORE CSE CONTACT OPTIONS

Connect With Us
Computer Science and Engineering
338 Davis Hall
Buffalo, New York 14260-2500
(716) 645-3180
Quick Links
Why Choose CSE?
News & Events
Employment Opportunities
Give to CSE
Contact Us
Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Explore Further
Get Involved
Engineering and Applied Sciences Alumni Association
Support SEAS
Collaborate with UB
On This Website
About Us
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Research
People
News & Events
Full Site Map
Information For
Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni
© 2023 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility
