University at Buffalo
The State University
of New York
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences





School of Engineering and Applied Sciences News & Events
News & Events
Latest News
SUNY chancellor touts UB as national leader in AI9/8/23
The visit to UB also kicked off a discussion series on harnessing AI for the public good. 
Whittaker recognized for contributions to nuclear energy9/8/23
Andrew S. Whittaker, SUNY Distinguished Professor in civil, structural and environmental engineering, is the inaugural recipient of the American Nuclear Society’s (ANS) Untermyer & Cisler Reactor Technology Medal.
Two NSF grants totaling $1 million fund research to make machine learning smarter9/7/23
Machines solve problems by developing their own models and algorithms, but this requires a significant commitment from human programmers. Two UB projects could make this process more efficient and expand the capabilities of machine learning. 
Battaglia elected president of ASTFE9/1/23
Having previously served as vice president for the American Society of Thermal and Fluid Engineers, Francine Battaglia now steps into a two-year term as president for the organization.
UB researchers receive six NSF CAREER awards totaling nearly $3.8 million8/28/23
The funding will help researchers advance AI-powered medical imaging, develop new lubricants for longer lasting cars, catch cybercriminals and more.
UB professor, partners awarded $300,000 to boost women in STEM8/23/23
Matilde Sánchez-Peña and partners will study why, despite 20 years of investment, woman make up only 20% of engineering students and tenure-track faculty.
Two scholars receive prestigious NSF fellowships to study at UB8/14/23
Karla Rosalia Sanchez Lievanos and Emmanuel M. Nsengiyumva will conduct research and outreach on ‘forever chemicals’ and carbon capture technology, respectively.
MORE NEWS
Upcoming Events
Sep
14
WiSE Solar Strand Tour with UB Sustainability
2:30 PM - 3:30 PM
Sep
14
Resume Writing Skillshop
4:00 PM - 5:00 PM
Student Union - Theater Room 201
ALL EVENTS AND SEMINARS
Featured Events
Welcome Weekend
In the Media
6/21/23 UB's Center for Industrial Effectiveness builds wind energy workforce
6/21/23 WNY veteran weighs in on submersible search near Titanic wreckage
6/15/23 'Wild West' of AI campaign warfare: DeSantis launches attack ad with fake Fauci image
MORE PRESS RELEASES
E-News
Sign up for our E-Newsletter
EXPLORE PAST ISSUES
Explore News by Topic
Alumni News
Diversity and Outreach News
Faculty News
Student News
Seen in SEAS
Galleries, videos and photographs capturing life in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
Discover life in SEAS
The Art of Research included an exhibit on the Buffalo Museum of Science floor, opening students’ work up to a broad audience. Photo: Meredith Forrest Kulwicki
Share This
Full Screen
Previous1/6Next
Art of Research
Four School of Engineering and Applied Sciences students were recognized at the inaugural Art of Research competition April 25 at the Buffalo Museum of Science. The event celebrates the extraordinary research of UB graduate students and postdoctoral scholars through a showcase of original images highlighting the inherent beauty in research, scholarship and creative activity.
Buffalo Engineer Magazine
Buffalo Engineer is published by the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences to showcase the excellence of our faculty, staff, alumni and students.
Read with Issuu
Download the PDF version
(9.9 MB)
Browse past issues
Share your thoughts
We'd love to hear what you think of Buffalo Engineer! Please take our short survey here.
Give to SEAS
Inside the Latest Issue
A win-win situation
Learn how Buffalo start-up company ACV’s investment in SEAS students is making a lasting impact.
Engineering a healthier future for dogs
Read how a biomedical engineering student’s love for animals inspired him to create a 3D prosthetic to replace a dog’s missing leg.
Tracking and monitoring space debris
New $5 million grant from the Space University Research Initiative program will improve the nation’s ability to track and monitor spacecraft and other objects such as space debris and meteoroids.
Drone testing facility opens
The Structure for Outdoor Autonomy Research (SOAR) is a 24,000 square foot netted outdoor testing facility for uncrewed aerial vehicles and is one of the largest in the country.
Remembering SUNY Distinguished Professor Sargar “Hari” Srihari
The UB community lost long-time faculty member and internationally renowned professor Hari Srihari, who died on March 8 at age 72.
Meet Annika Samuels, BS IE 2003, National Fuel Gas Co.
Industrial engineering alumna Annika Samuels, Director of Diversity and Inclusion at National Fuel Gas Co., shares her thoughts about her time at UB.
Student team earns bronze in Amazon competition
Computer science and linguistics students joined forces to create a socialbot that converses with users on a range of topics and earned a $50,000 prize in the Amazon Alexa Socialbot Competition.
Have you received an honor or award? Are you hosting an exciting SEAS event? Tell us about it!
Submit news
SEAS Portal Login
SEAS Intranet
Give
Contact Us
Academic Departments
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical and Biological Engineering
Civil, Structural and Environmental Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Engineering Education
Industrial and Systems Engineering
Materials Design and Innovation
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
Sitemap
© 2023 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility
