School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
UB HomeMapsUB Directory
Department of Computer Science
and Engineering
Give to CSE Apply Now Contact Us
About Us
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
People
News & Events
Alumni
SEARCH
INFO FOR
Department of Computer Science and Engineering About Us Faces & Voices Droste, James
About Us
Chair's Welcome
Our Mission
Our Values
Why Choose CSE?
Faces & Voices
A History of our Department
Contact Us
Support CSE
Related Links
About the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
About the University
About Buffalo-Niagara
Droste, James
Computer Science BS '17
James Droste.  Defending the Internet.  Photo credit: Onion Studio
“I'm amazed by what I was able to do in CSE's student server room. I can bring up and manage a whole network infrastructure. ”
James Droste
Computer Science BS Candidate '17
Published April 3, 2017
This content is archived.
by Christian Miller
James Droste wears a black UB Network Defense jacket with his hacker code name, debug, embroidered on the sleeve. It's a sleek look for the captain of the UB team that competed in the 2016 Northeast Collegiate Cyberdefense Competition, hosted at RIT, at which UB took third place.
"The entire weekend was designed to make us sweat the entire time," James recalled. "Constantly being attacked, trying to get stuff done. It's meant to be a very high pressure situation to say the least. We typically don't sleep, up 'til 3 a.m., back up at 9 a.m. It's fun when they rm -rf a box. They reweaponized a virus called Shamoon. They put it on all our boxes so it would turn our boxes off. It triggered an alert, and because it was the same virus, we thought the real virus was back. General antics from the red team."
The red team is the offensive squad that challenges the cyberdefenders, made up of industry professionals who perform penetration testing for a living. They work for government agencies and private security contractors. "This is the only time they can let loose and not care if things work or not after they leave," James said. "They're people heavy inside the information security community."
James, from Nanuet, NY, got started in cyberdefense when he met former CSE sysadmin Kevin Cleary. "When I was interviewing to be a CSE 101 teaching assistant, Kevin was one of my interviewers. I'm amazed by the stuff I was able to do in Davis 339C, CSE's student server room. That's my second home.  I can bring up and manage a whole network infrastructure. That's something I never thought I'd be able to do."
James will join the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Security Operations Team in Seattle, WA, after he graduates in May. "When you email aws-security, we're the team that handles that," he said. "If one of your EC2 instances got hacked, we're your team." He interned at Amazon's Herndon, Va. location between his junior and senior years.  Because AWS runs such a high percentage of commercial websites, "I actually got to protect the Internet."
He looks forward to living in Seattle. "Everything's walkable and I'll be in the city, so it's pretty sick. Our floor was awesome. It's so high up, the view is incredible. They allow dogs in the workplace, so we have two dogs on the team, too."
James doesn't rule out joining the real-life red team at some point in the future. "I see it as my military service.  I could do that to give back to the country."
CSE AT A GLANCE
Chair: Jinhui Xu
Full-time Faculty: 61
Degrees Offered:
PhD in Computer Science and Engineering
MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS/MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS in Computer Science
BS in Computer Engineering
BA in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Cybersecurity
BS in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology—Computer Science and Engineering Concentration
BS in Computational Physics
BA in Social Sciences Interdisciplinary—Cognitive Science Concentration
Student Body:
918 Graduate Majors
2,062 Undergraduate Majors
1,319 Graduate Student Headcounts
2,404 Undergraduate Student Headcounts
64 Nations Represented
Research Overview:
18,332 square feet of teaching and research labs
$4.6 million in annual research expenditures
Research Areas:
Artificial Intelligence
Systems
Theory
Interdisciplinary
NEED TO TALK TO SOMEONE?
For personal assistance, email the appropriate support team below.
CSE Departmental Inquiries:
cse-dept@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Prospective Students):
gradeng@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Current Students):
csegradcoord@buffalo.edu
CSE Undergraduate Program:
cse-uginfo@buffalo.edu
CSE Information Technology Services:
cse-consult@buffalo.edu
SEE MORE CSE CONTACT OPTIONS

Connect With Us
Computer Science and Engineering
338 Davis Hall
Buffalo, New York 14260-2500
(716) 645-3180
Quick Links
Why Choose CSE?
News & Events
Employment Opportunities
Give to CSE
Contact Us
Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Explore Further
Get Involved
Engineering and Applied Sciences Alumni Association
Support SEAS
Collaborate with UB
On This Website
About Us
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Research
People
News & Events
Full Site Map
Information For
Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni
© 2023 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility
