School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
UB HomeMapsUB Directory
Department of Computer Science
and Engineering
Give to CSE Apply Now Contact Us
About Us
Undergraduate
Graduate
Research
People
News & Events
Alumni
SEARCH
INFO FOR
Department of Computer Science and Engineering About Us Faces & Voices Wang, Aosen
About Us
Chair's Welcome
Our Mission
Our Values
Why Choose CSE?
Faces & Voices
A History of our Department
Contact Us
Support CSE
Related Links
About the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences
About the University
About Buffalo-Niagara
Wang, Aosen
PhD '18
Aosen Wang.  From personal uncertainty to a best graduate research award.  Photo credit: Onion Studio
“Research is a change process. From being scared at first to being interested in it. ”
Aosen Wang
PhD Candidate '19
Published April 4, 2017
This content is archived.
by Christian Miller
Aosen Wang's first job was as an algorithm software engineer at Vimicro, a multimedia chip design firm not far from his hometown of Siping, in China's Ji Lin Province.  His job was strictly on the software side, tweaking code to improve chip efficiency.  It was a perfectly respectable start for the career of a graduate of the prestigious University of Science and Technology of China.  But Aosen suspected that greater victories were within reach.
"I realized that not so much could be improved at the software level," he said.  "I wanted to get into the lower hardware layers where big performance improvements could be made."  Time delays could be foreshortened.  Accuracy improved.  He wanted to contribute his own innovative ideas to the field.  For that, he came to Buffalo.
But, having arrived at UB, he discovered that the freedom to chart his own research course was unexpectedly daunting.  "I was scared before coming here," he said.  "Research is difficult, cutting-edge.  Maybe I don't have answers."
Things improved when he found a kindred spirit in faculty advisor Wenyao Xu, who shares his interest in low power computer architecture design.  "The most important thing has been help from my advisor," said Aosen. "At our first meeting, he told me not to worry. He taught me how to do the research, the discussion, the background, which parts to pay attention to, and how to optimize the results."
With Dr. Xu's help, Aosen found his groove.  "I published my first paper after my first semester."  By his second year, he won the 2016 CSE Best Graduate Research Award.  "I find it's not so difficult.  Research is a change process. From being scared to being interested in it.  Students and faculty are willing to help, just like family.  I can ask silly questions.  Algorithms and machine learning techniques.  At first, I feel the research is very difficult, but now I feel this is a very good topic.  I keep asking my advisor to let me work on more ideas."
CSE AT A GLANCE
Chair: Jinhui Xu
Full-time Faculty: 61
Degrees Offered:
PhD in Computer Science and Engineering
MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS/MS in Computer Science and Engineering
BS in Computer Science
BS in Computer Engineering
BA in Computer Science
Minor in Computer Science
Minor in Cybersecurity
BS in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology—Computer Science and Engineering Concentration
BS in Computational Physics
BA in Social Sciences Interdisciplinary—Cognitive Science Concentration
Student Body:
918 Graduate Majors
2,062 Undergraduate Majors
1,319 Graduate Student Headcounts
2,404 Undergraduate Student Headcounts
64 Nations Represented
Research Overview:
18,332 square feet of teaching and research labs
$4.6 million in annual research expenditures
Research Areas:
Artificial Intelligence
Systems
Theory
Interdisciplinary
NEED TO TALK TO SOMEONE?
For personal assistance, email the appropriate support team below.
CSE Departmental Inquiries:
cse-dept@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Prospective Students):
gradeng@buffalo.edu
CSE Graduate Program (Current Students):
csegradcoord@buffalo.edu
CSE Undergraduate Program:
cse-uginfo@buffalo.edu
CSE Information Technology Services:
cse-consult@buffalo.edu
SEE MORE CSE CONTACT OPTIONS

Connect With Us
Computer Science and Engineering
338 Davis Hall
Buffalo, New York 14260-2500
(716) 645-3180
Quick Links
Why Choose CSE?
News & Events
Employment Opportunities
Give to CSE
Contact Us
Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Explore Further
Get Involved
Engineering and Applied Sciences Alumni Association
Support SEAS
Collaborate with UB
On This Website
About Us
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Research
People
News & Events
Full Site Map
Information For
Students
Faculty and Staff
Alumni
© 2023 University at Buffalo. All rights reserved.  |  Privacy  |  Accessibility
